♪ [music] ♪
In order to start working with the
database, we first need
to import Mongoose. Again, Mongoose
is our package that we use
to interface with our MongoDB database.
So we say "const Mongoose equals
require Mongoose." Then we also need
reference to our store .js schema,
and rather than importing this schema
directly from the file because we've
already imported it once in our
start.js file, remember in our require
model store, we can simply reference it
off the Mongoose variable here
because Mongoose uses a concept
called a singleton, which allows us
to only import our models once
and then reference them anywhere
in our application. So const Store equals
mongoose.model Store, and that comes
from...where did that Store come from?
Well, at the bottom of our model, where we
create the model here, we are setting it
to be store, and here we are getting it
and putting it back into this
variable here. Good.
Now let's go into our create store,
and let's talk about how to actually
create a store with MongoDB. So the way,
that you do it is you say const store
equals new Store, and then you pass it
in object full of a name, a description,
and the tags. So the way that we can do
that is already in request.body,
so we can just pass that directly
from the body into our store.
Now you may be saying like, "Well, what
happens if somebody posts some other
data that we don't necessarily want?
Is that going to be a bit of an issue?"
Well, no, it's not an issue because if you
open up your store.js, we are using
what's called a strict schema by default,
and it will only pick up the actual fields
that we have set out in this schema.
Anything else will get thrown away.
So we have our store. Now, in order
to save this to the database,
we just created the store here, and we
could go ahead and add new stuff to the
stuff, so store.age equals 10, store.cool
equals true. You can keep adding fields
to your store, but none of that will be
reflected in the database until you call
store.save. And what that will do is once
you call store.save, it's going to fire
off a connection to your MongoDB database,
save that data, and then come back to us
with either the store itself or an error
saying what happened. Maybe there was a
validation error. Maybe there was some
missing data, incorrect data.
You don't know.
So at this point what you need to take
sort of a look at the history of Mongoose
and how it's been working. So in the olden
days, what we would do is we would have a
callback function because JavaScript is a
synchronous...meaning that if I were
to call a bunch of code right here
and maybe console log, it worked,
or in our case, we're going to redirect
them to maybe like the home page,
what that's going to do is it's going
to fire off the save, and then redirect
them to the home page, but the
save will not happen immediately.
The save will take some time because this
sort of stuff where you...if you ever do
an ajax request, you know that it takes
time, or if you ever save some data to a
database, it will take a little bit
of time, but JavaScript will not wait
for anybody because it's a synchronous
by default, and what that means is that it
would simply just fire it off and then
redirect you, regardless of if that
actually worked or not. And that's a bit
of a problem for us because before we
redirect them, we need to know, was there
an error? And if so, we need to display
it to the user and tell them,
"Hey, this actually didn't work."
So the way that we initially did it is we
would have a callback function here,
and that would pass us the error if there
was an error, and then it would pass us
the actual store, or the document, as it's
called in MongoDB. You can call that
whatever you want. And then, in here you
say, if there is no error, then you can
take your redirect, and take your
console log, it worked, and put it
up inside of here. Now, whew!
That's a lot of code just for a simple
saving of a store. What happens
if you need to first query
three or four stores, then loop
over the data, then save two of those
actual stores? You can see how
this code would get really
complicated if you need to have any sort
of order of operation inside of your
actual code because in here, then once it
worked, maybe you would take another one
like reviews. and like you would find all
of the reviews, and then when that
is done, you have the error and the
reviews, and then when that is done,
and you want to redirect them. You could
see how things just start getting nested
deeper and deeper and deeper if you just
want to do what? One, two, three,
four, five. If you want to do six things
before you actually send some data
to the actual user, your code gets
to be looking like what's called a
Christmas tree code, or this is referred
to as callback hell, where you have
nested data over and over and over again.
So that's not a great way to code
your app. You will see a lot of example
code online like that because that's
how it was for many, many years.
But let's bring it back, bring it back,
bring it back. Let's bring it back just
to this right here store.save.
What we have now transitioned
over to is using Mongoose with what's
called promises, and promises
will immediately return to you,
not the data, whether it worked or not
because that's impossible.
What it will return to us is a promise
which is sort of like an IOU note
for, "I will eventually come back to you
with either the data, which the store
saved, or the data that you queried, or
an error saying something had happened."
So we had changed our...we take that
save out, put it on it's own line, take
the semicolon off, and then we would
chain.then, which is what you use
in a promise. And the reason why we can
use a promise is because if you look
back at our start.js, remember they did
this mongoose.promise equals
global.promise. What this does is at first
tells Mongoose that we are using
promises, and second, it tells us that
we're using built-in ES6 promises
because there are additional promise
libraries like Bluebird and whatnot,
but now that ES6 promises are out, we
can just use them.
So we have then, we have a store that
comes back, and then you could say
like res.json, the actual store data,
and if there's an error, you catch the
error, and then you do something, throw
error with the actual error in there.
So that's good, and the beauty of that is
you can chain store, so maybe you want it
to save the store, but then you want it
to return store.find all of the stores
because you want it to immediately display
a list of all of the stores like the
latest ten. And then what that will allow
you to do is you can chain stores,
and that will allow us to do
like res.render store list,
and you want to pass it a list of the
stores which is just stores.
So that's great because you can chain
these things on and on and on as long
as you possibly want, as long as each one
of these is returning some sort of promise
from each of the thens. So that made
things a little bit easier because we're
not in callback hell anymore. We're just
in sort of chaining promise land.
The promise land is chained, but we can do
even better. In ES8, we have something
called async await, which also does
away with all of this then, then,
thening catch. So let's go back to here.
Let's bring the save back onto its
own line.
Now, let's say I wanted a console log. It
worked only once the save has finished.
The way that we can do that is we can tell
JavaScript, "Hey, hold on a second.
Just like cool your jets, and wait
until I've done this save, and then
continue on," and that's with something
called async await, and the way that that
works is you go to your function, and you
mark this function as async, and that
will tell the browser or node.js that,
"Hey, this function that I'm using is
going to have some awaits inside of it or
possibly have some awaits inside of it,"
and then we can go in front of the thing
that returns a promise and simply await
it because store.save will return to us
a promise, and we then can await it,
meaning that we will not move
on to line 16 until the save has
successfully happened.
Good. So don't worry too too much if this
doesn't make a whole lot of sense.
We're going to be doing it quite a bit,
especially if you're brand new
to promises, it can be a little bit of a
woe, but we'll get it as we go along.
One more thing that we need to know
about async await is that there's no...
you noticed that before we had a callback
that passed an error, or we had a .catch
that gave us the error. In order to catch
an error with async await,
you generally have to wrap your entire
code in a try. You try all this stuff,
and then you have this fallback catch.
We'll give you the error, and then if that
happens, you need to do something
with your actual error in here. Maybe you
console log it or send the user
to a 404 page or whatnot.
I'm not a huge fan of that because the
whole try catch thing, the whole beauty
of async await is that you don't have
to have all of this nested code,
and if you have to wrap your code in this
ugly try catch, it's a bit of a bummer.
So, two solutions, just don't write code
that has bugs, which is what I do.
I'm joking. You can't ever do that because
if there is an error, your node.js process
will quit on you, and that's not good
to happen.
So you always have to handle your errors
even if you think you're amazing
at programming and you never write errors.
So how are we going to handle that? Well,
one cool way is that we can use something
called composition, which is you can take
this create store and wrap it in another
function that will catch any errors. So we
create a higher function that wraps create
store, and if any of this code in here was
to throw an error, if anything weird was
to happen inside of here, we will have a
function that wraps it that will handle
all of our error handling,
which is really, really nice.
So I've already coded this function
for you. Let's open up error handlers.js,
and you see this catch errors here. What
this will do, and this is essentially
just a middleware that we can use here,
is it will take in the function,
which in our case is the create store
function, and it will return a function
that calls it...this is a function that
calls a function, and if there is
an error, it will catch it and call
.next. Okay, follow with me. And what
.next will do is if we look at our app.js,
remember we have all of our routes.
Where are they? Here we go, app.use
routes, and all of our routes are going
to be wrapped in this error handler here.
So if any of our routes hit an error, this
error handler is going to kick in,
and it's going to catch the error because
we don't want to have to do it.
It's going to catch it for us, and it's
going to immediately call next,
and what next will do is it's just going
to say, "Okay, well something
just happened. We're not going to use
any of these routes here.
We're just going to pass it along the
chain of middleware, which is either
going to be a not found or a validation
flash error, which we're going to talk
about, or it's going to most likely,
it's going to be this one, which is going
to either show us our development errors
or our production errors.
So I know that's a little bit confusing
because there's a whole lot of steps that
that has to filter through, but we will
keep coming back to how this works,
and as we go along, but the main thing
that we need to learn about here is that
if you do not wrap your async await
functions in a try catch, you need to wrap
it in this catch errors function right
here, so that it will handle all of the
errors for you. Let's go back to our
routes here, and we need to then
import that error handler
because this create store function,
it is async await, so it needs
to be wrapped in that catch
error function. We need to use
composition, which is wrapping a function
in a function. So we will do this. We'll
say const curly brackets catch errors
equals require, then we'll go up a level
into our handlers directory, and then
we'll grab our error handlers.js file,
don't need the .js on the end.
So, whoa, we haven't done this before.
What is this? This is just something
called object de-structuring, which will
allow us to import an entire object, which
will have an object exports.catch
error, exports.not found,
exports.flash validation.
We don't need all of these.
We just need to catch errors.
So by taking de-structuring,
if you've taken my ES6 course, you'll know
that what that will do is just creates a
variable called catch errors, and it's not
necessary to import the entire thing,
and then grab a property off of it. We can
simply just import the one method that we
need, and then we'll take this catch
errors and wrap our controller
that is async await.
So essentially, what this is going to do
is it's immediately going to run catch
errors when you boot up your application,
and catch errors is going to take that
function, wrap it in another function, a
higher order function,
and then return to us that function with a
catch tacked on to the end, that will then
handle pushing up to the next value.
So, again, don't worry too too much if
that doesn't make a whole lot of sense.
It's a bit confusing, but it's a nice
clean way for us to just catch any of the
errors and push them along to some later
middleware, rather than us have to catch
the error in every single controller
that we have, and then to handle it.
In here, we don't have to handle the
errors, unless we explicitly want to do
the error handling in a special way.
We simply just let the errors happen,
let the error handler catch it for us,
and then push it along our middleware
stack, so that one of our error handlers,
not found, validation errors,
development errors,
or production errors, one of these
middlewares is going to figure out which
one should be actually displaying
it for us. So, whew! Let's go back to our
create store function. We have our async.
We are awaiting the store.save.
When the store is saved,
we are going to redirect them.
Let's just redirect them to the home page
for now, so res.redirect to forward slash.
So give it a save. Let's go back
to our add folder here.
Let's try add a store called bakery,
and the description is I love bread,
and we're going to make it vegetarian
and open late and give it a save.
Whew! Look what happened there. It saved
the data and then redirected us to the
home page. How do we know if
it worked? Well, we can open up our
MongoDB compass application here,
and we can connect back to our compass
database that we have. So either you
are on local host, or you are on your
mLab, depending on which one you have.
It should be still in your sidebar here.
If you ever forget your username
and password, again, you can just open
up that variables.env, and here you will
see your username, your password,
your host, your port, and your
database name.
So those are, if you ever forget it, it
will always be in your variables.env file.
So I'm going to connect to that, and we
find our database, and you now see if you
go to stores, whoo ooh, one! Click it
and click on documents, and you see that
there's the bakery. The slug has been
made lowercase, the name, I love bread,
and then we added a couple of tags. There
they are, open late and vegetarian.
Let's try it again. Go to add, we're going
to add fish market,
shout out to catch of the day, and let's
say licensed. You'll have a beer at our
fish market. Click on save. Good. It just
redirected us to the home page,
but if I click on refresh, aha, second one
has now been popping up.
So that's all you need in order
to save data to a database.
You first create your schema, what your
data looks like, and then in your
controller, you create a new version
from that schema, and you call it .save
on it, and because we use async await,
there's no nested callbacks. There's no
promise chaining.then. It's simply just
wait for it to save, then do some data.
♪ [music] ♪